# Blogs

## The blog.md

If you want a directory to function as a blog the first thing you do is is add a blog.md file. This file will be a short discription of the blog and trigger the blog card building. Have a look at the blog.md in the Documentation directory. Keep it short.

## Naming

Blogfiles will have the name yyyymmddhhmm-title.md like this page is 
called 202405090712-documentation.md As you can see the naming can used
to sort the cards to by changing the time.

## No entries yet?

As long as there are no entries yet a placeholder will be shown. The 
placeholder file should be placed/can be found in the main directory
here /sample. its name is 195912110200-Placeholder.md. You can edit
it but dont change its name.

## Blogcards

Beside using the first picture in a page or a placeholder, it shows a 
teaser test. This is made if the first consecutive text line in the 
document cut at 160 tokens. So this does not include lines starting with
`#` which would be interpreted as headings. One more thing, if you have 
a gallery and no other pictures, the last gallery picture will be used. 

## Images

The blogfiles can have images in them. The first one will be shown as
an image in the blogfile card. If there is none the placeholder image
imageNotAvailable.png in the asset directory will be served. Images
are written as commonmark strings and can have attributes.

## How many blogs

You can have as many blogs as you want this way. Just make an directory
for anyone and add a blog.md and blogfiles in the format shown above.  
